# Aura

Aura is a visionOS application that brings real-time speech transcription and environmental sound awareness directly into your field of view. Designed with privacy and accessibility at its core, Aura overlays live captions and sound cues in both a standard 2D window and a fully immersive spatial environment. Everything runs on-device, ensuring fast performance and complete privacy.

## Core Features
* Real-Time, On-Device Processing
* All transcription and sound classification runs locally, keeping audio private while delivering fast, reliable results.
* Intelligent Text Segmentation

Aura breaks continuous speech into clean, readable sentences and phrases by detecting natural pauses and punctuation patterns.

Multi-Language Support

Users can switch speech recognition languages instantly, with options including English, Spanish, Hindi, and more.

Dual Interface Modes

Choose between:

A compact 2D floating panel for shared space

A fully immersive RealityKit experience where the UI gently follows the user’s gaze

Key Technologies

SwiftUI for declarative and adaptive UI

RealityKit for spatial rendering and immersive placement

AVFoundation to capture microphone input

Speech framework for live, on-device transcription

SoundAnalysis for detecting and classifying environmental audio events

@Observable for reactive, low-latency state management

How It Works

Aura captures microphone input using AVFoundation and sends the audio stream to both:

The Speech framework for live transcription

The SoundAnalysis framework for environmental sound classification

For the immersive UI, Aura renders SwiftUI views into UIImages, converts them into TextureResources, and maps them onto RealityKit ModelEntities, allowing the interface to float naturally within the spatial environment.

Project Setup

Clone the repository

Open the project in Xcode

Run on the visionOS Simulator or a physical Apple Vision Pro

On first launch, grant Microphone and Speech Recognition permissions

No external dependencies are required.

Limitations and Future Scope

Aura is still in its early stages, and several enhancements are planned:

Directional Audio Awareness

While early code for azimuth detection exists, the current UI does not surface direction-of-arrival data. Future versions aim to indicate where a sound is coming from, not just what it is.

Emergency Awareness Mode (Upcoming)

We plan to introduce intelligent emergency detection for home use.
Aura will be able to:

Recognize urgent sounds such as fire alarms, smoke detectors, breaking glass, and distress cues

Detect visual emergency indicators in the environment, like small fires or hazardous situations

Deliver immediate instructions on what to do

Allow users to quickly call emergency services such as 911 directly through an on-screen prompt

This feature is designed to support users who may miss critical sounds, creating a safer and more informed home environment.

Extended Sound Library

More sound classes and context-aware alerts will be added as the underlying models evolve.

Acknowledgements

Aura was created during a hackathon hosted by LA Tech Week, the USC Information Sciences Institute (ISI), and Lovable.
Thank you to the organizers, mentors, and everyone who supported the project.
